# HBot
#### Video Demo:  <URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iEefJqAN2ns>
#### Description: A multi-purpose Discord Bot.
TODO:

For my final project, I have chosen to make a discord bot using the Python Programming Language. I had many ideas at first, deciding on what will I be programming and showcasing. At first, I thought of creating a simple game using Lua or C++. I was mostly in the finding ideas phase when starting on this project as I didn't know what or where to start. When I first thought about creating a game I was taken aback by the many things I have to consider in creating a game.

In the end, I had to put a stop to creating a game and look elsewhere. I mostly looked through online forums to find ideas and as well as final project examples from CS50. After looking at many ideas to take inspiration on, I have settled on something that I have been using, Discord bots. I have taken on the challenge of creating my discord bot.

There are many kinds of discord bots out there developed by different teams or groups of people. There is a moderation bot, music bot, general management bot, and many other kinds of specialized discord bot. The one I chose to create is a general multi-purpose bot. Once I have grasped what project I wanted to do. I also needed to pick which programming language to use in developing my bot. The first thing I thought of was using python. There is also java but it is harder than using python.

So the first thing I did was make my discord account a developer so I can create an application bot. after that, I just needed to get its token and invite it to my server. The starting parts of this bot and code were pretty easy as you only need some basic understanding of how it works. As later on I had a hard time figuring out how to add specific features but I was able to push through and finish them.

After initializing my bot the first feature I added was some basic chat functions and commands. It works by using the ? sign then followed by the name of the command. The second feature I made is the simple help command, for those who wish to use the bot themselves. It mostly contains descriptions of the command and how to use them. It was mostly just using the correct commands and functions that the Discord.py library has to make this work. It does have an original Help command of its own but I wanted to create my custom help command. Discord library only sends a text for the help command but I wanted it to send an embed instead. I only needed to use 1 line of code to remove the original Help command.

Next was the admin commands, ban, kick and unban commands. It is self-explanatory how this works as I just needed to give the bot permission to do them and it is done. Another simple command I added was the polls command. One is the yes or no poll and the other is a 2 option poll where you only have 1 answer.

The main feature I wanted my multi-purpose bot to have was the music player function. Now this one I had a few problems trying to encode to my bot. I had to figure out how to make my bot connect to the specific voice channel that the person who has sent the command in and check if they are in a voice channel. Another I had to figure out was having the bot use something so that it can stream and play music without having to download it on your device. Once I figure these 2 out adding the pause, resume, and stop functions would be very easy enough.

There were 2 ways that I can implement this but each had its pros and cons. The first option in doing it is by using a library that lets me connect or create a javascript server to where the bot uses to connect so that it can stream music to our voice chats. Like connecting to YouTube Music or using Spotify to stream it directly to the channel. The other way of doing it is running it through FFmpeg which you install on your computer and stream then stream it to the channel.

I first chose to use the library and connect to a server but that had a lot of problems where I got a lot of headaches from. As there were many options to choose from and them having their techniques for doing so. So I had to scrap that idea and use the second option which was a lot easier. I downloaded FFmpeg which will use to process the video to audio-only and use it in the stream to play music. I also made it so that before it plays a piece of music it checks to make sure that the user is in a voice channel if not it will give an error, but once it does see they are in one it will join right ahead. adding the other 3 functions that I mentioned were very easy enough to add.

The Last feature I added, is the morse code decoder and encoder. It was similar to doing Week 2's activity named Caesar. Instead of inputting the exact key to get the same scramble and unscrambled message. We have a uniform way of doing it using the morse code dictionary. The code is almost similar enough to what I did in that project and the same goes with unscrambling it. There might be more features that I can add but that is it for this final project.

Now despite past complexities that I had on my main feature, I was able to finish my multi-function discord Hbot. It does the tasks that are needed and it works pretty well. As for now, I have no plans in hosting my bot on other people's servers as it needs more development time for it to happen and some more verifications are needed. Right now it is used as a personal bot for me and my friends' server.

I had a lot of fun coding this project and I hope to accomplish more in the future. I am Nathan Matthew A. Bareng and this was CS50 Final Project.